---
serie: The English Method
title: Mirror
---

Dear diary,


I woke up early in the morning amidst the result of my carnage, with the stench
of corpse all around me and the chitter-chatter of maggots that had sprouted
inside. And inside my head, heavy like after an evening of drinking, I could
still feel its monstrous existence; its careful examination of the fresco that
decorated the room inside my mind, the way it let its claws slightly chip off
their paint. I felt ashamed of my erratic use of violence; and I went home, my
thighs bitten by the brambles, my arms nibbled by the nettles, my belly and my
brain full of bile. 

But there was no safety inside my house, nor anywhere, for the enemy would
follow me always. I watched myself in the mirror, thinking foolishly that there
could be some physical mark of the infection. Then I had the idea of talking to
the mirror. I mean this quite literally, not talking to myself through the
looking glass, but using the Universal Language to speak to the object itself.
At first I thought, surely the mirror would be like a parrot, repeating my
every words. It was actually rather articulate. “I dislike your face blemishing
my perfectly polished glass, living thing; I have no intention of talking to
you”. (This is the best translation I can give, but it should be noted that you
cannot really render the Universal Language as it is and particularly as it
feels when heard or spoken).

I thought about breaking the insolent thing, but then I supposed all common
objects that surround us, would they talk, would only complain about their
condition and their abuse. Is a bar of soap pleased of being a bar of soap, an
agent of cleanliness in a world of dirt and dust ? Or is its existence a
constant torture, a never-ending and terrifying descent into an oblivion of
slimming, slimming at each contact with hands and water - surely, it must dream
of things that grow rather than shrink, things that are fed and not eternally
thinned, dream of being a force-fed goose. So, harassed by the bickering of
everything around me, I couldn’t as I had the night before, go around breaking
or murdering every caustic piece of furniture, every mocking animal; I had to
follow a more reasonable course. And I apologized to the mirror, adding that
nonetheless, every other odd week, I’d comb my hair and need its help. While I
was offering this olive branch, I wondered if the mirror really did
communicate, or if all those apparent conversations were a ploy produced by the
Language, since it could probably control my mind somehow. But then the mirror,
second-guessing me, said mysteriously : “You fight fire with fire”. And then it
struck me that universality ought to be fought with universality - or at least,
my own brand of it. Which is how I refurbished my memory of this incident and
wrote in the real universal language of our times - had it happened a few
centuries ago, this would have been written in latin.

I decided that I had to use the most universal language available - not as
Universal as the Language itself, of course - not only to starve the intruder,
but to unlearn it and replace it in my memory. At first, English appeared as a
poor substitute; my personal use of English was a mess. I had kept some old
Frisian and Saxon roots; some Norse and French from Normandy; and since then
through my many travels, I had picked up expressions from around the globe. My
vocabulary a mixture between the American and the British, with bits and pieces
taken  from New Zealand, South Africa and Jamaica. As such, it was far from
universal, it was the wonderful hovel and trove that builds the core of the
English language. I had to let go of my mannerism, of many of my beloved
outdated expressions and of words that even dictionaries shun. Hence the poor
state of my current English, and I apologize, dear diary, for that tasteless
paste, that pale copy of the yonder wonders.
