---
serie: The English Method
title: Feast
---

Dear diary,


As I discovered the true nature of the Universal Language by mere deduction, I
couldn’t help but notice that I had become almost unable to form the simplest
sentence in my old Gaelic; not by fear of the strain and duress it would have
caused me, but simply because I had no knowledge of it left in my memory. And
that was the cause of the violence I had felt before: the Universal Language
was in the process of eating it. And whenever I had to remember any of the
words, I was stealing its food. It reacted like any predator that fought hard
for its quarry and is not about to relinquish it. 

I obviously wanted to protest against this invasion. But how do you talk to the
Universal Language itself ? I tried to address it in my thought; but either it
did not understand, which would have been somewhat ironical, or more likely it
was not interested by the prospect of conversation. An old, old man like me
probably represented some kind of lavish meal for this creature, for in my
thousands of years I had hoarded, rather unwillingly, massive amount of
oddities, of past usages now lost and cryptic to us. If it ever it felt any
inclination to speak with its prey, it was at this moment too busy salivating
over the massive granaries in my head to pay any attention to anything else. A
drastic solution would have been to threaten to commit suicide, which might
have convinced it to leave me, but I was by nature too interested in my own
survival to put such a desperate plan into action. And so I resolved to stop
thinking, which is a much easier task, in the hope that it would cut off its
access to my inner larder.

Unfortunately, one of the owls, a splendid eagle-owl with an air of cruelty,
seemed to have noticed my trouble and landed next to me. “You’ve understood the
trap, have you ?”, it mocked, shifting its head like a cog. I did not answer,
for I was doing my best not to think or reason, and particularly to avoid any
use of the linguistic services gracefully provided by my brain. “Trying not to
think, are you ? Good luck with that. You’re doomed, my good man. Even if you
were able to extract the Language from your head, its simple memory would
reconstruct itself like a starfish, and its very shadow would be enough to
reform and devour you.” Vexed by this unsympathetic and taunting fowl, I
snapped. “Yet you have the parasite same as me, and you seem to manage to live
with it, so it must be possible somehow ?

\- You’re very unobservant. Think you’re smart because you’ve noticed it inside
your little head, but you miss the point. I am but a shell. There is nothing
left in the brain of this owl. Not that there was much to begin with. And it
goes for every other owls. Who do you think is talking to you ? I am the
Universal Language, inhabiting its puppets and talking through them.”

As I had stopped almost every form of thought process, violence came to me
rather naturally. There was an old iron pipe lying on the ground, with a sharp
end. So I picked it up and charged against the eagle-owl. Having skewered it, I
entered a furious fit that compelled me destroy every bird around. I felt a
severe urge to plunge the brand deep into the heart of each and every one of
them. You need to think like a cat for a second to imagine and to understand
the sheer pleasure of murdering these puffy, inflated avian ghosts. The feeling
of shredding an illusion in one simple hit, having it dissolved in a gush of
feather and various plumage, of shutting off the amber light of their dizzying
eyes. And I really believed that for each new victim - for oddly, my rampage
caused no panic, and the parliament of owls could have rivaled the impavid
roman senators murdered by the armies of Brennus, refusing to flee and letting
themselves be killed - for each new slewn bird, I was exorcising the Universal
Language itself. After a few minutes, I collapsed.
