---
serie: The English Method
title: Diplomacy
---

Dear diary,

I was in poor shape, certainly; furious even, for I had left the comfort of my
bed for this unpleasant scene; yet I felt scarcely scared. I had not even in
mind the lore that sees bad omens into most of these creatures; nothing but
disgust and anger. Two of the elders came and jumped near me, as if to report
on my condition to the others. I gestured violently in their direction to have
them leave. And back on the geriatric branch they came from they flew, their
feathers inflated with utter vexation. I rose and regained my composure,
cleaning my dressing gown with the back of my hand. Then I looked defiantly at
them, and glanced around till I found the speaker of this parliament of owls.
This remarkable creature was sitting atop a tired pinetree, and had the
characteristic mixture of dignity and cynicism that makes for the best umpires
of any gathering. I called it names.

Surprisingly, it answered. Not in the glum ondulation of its species, but in a
series of sounds I could not recognize and that yet seemed close to one of the
many articulate languages spoken on earth. Whatever it was, it sounded somewhat
human. I was slightly surprised, and decided that this bird had more than met
the eye, even the vast round eyes of an owl. Perhaps I should try another
language to see if it reacted ? From the attic of my brain I drew what ancient
greek I had left from my time in Athens; after all, a bird that was the symbol
of the city goddess ought to speak the language of its followers. I was
thoroughly disappointed. But the bird answered, once again in its strange
mixture of hisses and elongated vowels. I then tried the many idioms I have
butchered with my lack of gift for learning languages. I have lived for
countless centuries and all this time I collected so many of those that I lost
count. But each try met with the same result. As I methodically tried every one
I knew, including some cant and slang that nobody uses nowadays but fore some
polite academic desiring to understand graffiti on excavated walls, I felt
dizzy again, this time because of the sound inside my head, this inner tower of
Babel turned into a factory gone mad, spewing out sentences in every human
cypher, resorting even to the languages of the old, mythical times, the
Atalante with its backwards grammar and imaginary declensions, or even the
monstrous agregation of unmatching phonemes that we spoke in Hyperborea.
Finally, a Gaelic dialect did the trick and the bird, suddenly agitated,
answered something in the line of : “Yes, that I can speak, hello !, hello !”

During all this long combinatory attempt at finding a way to communicate the
other owls had watched politely at first, but had lost interest. They had
disappeared one by one, only to come back with fresh worms to eat and the
parliament was having a collective lunch break. When finally we managed to
uncover what I thought would be our main method of exchange, nobody cared but
the Speaker and me, for every other creatures was only preoccupied with
feeding.

I wanted to know how the owl knew that old variant of Gaelic. “Surely, the
druids have taught your ancestors their own language ?”. The speaker scoffed
and answered something nasty about druids. “This is no proper way to talk, oh,
bipedal pig, he added. This is just a commodity to teach you the Real Language.

\- What language do you speak of, myopic roamer of the night ? (I’ll gladfully
admit my mastery of insulting epithets was no match for this cunning
rhetorician).

\- Why, but the Universal Language, of course, the one everybody speaks, but
your egocentric species, that insist on having not only one, but a wealth of
them, and a beautiful waste of wealth if you ask me, oh, feeble ape. But hush
now for I barely know the barbaric jargon I’m using, and we’re in desperate
need of an interpreter.” 

He said a few words in the first, human-like and yet unknown sounds he had used
to answer every previous failed attempt at addressing him; and a small black
bird, something like a raven or perhaps a myna bird, hopped in front of me. The
Speaker and his official translator proceeded to teach me the Universal
Language.
