---
serie: The English Method
title: Enclosure
---

Dear diary,


I prepared my cat-trap as carefully as any mouse would. First, I sang an old
Saxon song, and I could feel the Universal Language putting its claws with
delight on the little pocket of flesh, or muscle, or gray cell where it was
stored. The more I sang, the more difficult it was, for I felt the pain I
described, the one that had surprised me when first I discovered the Universal
Language feeding on the others. I sang all the song I knew, telling the beads
of past centuries, with the many mistakes my memory must have made for when
you’ve lived through them you tend to get confused; even nursery rhymes of the
nineteenth centuries, with all their bizarre words invented for children, were
enough to drive the Language mad, running after each available prey, its
appetite awoken by each new bait, leaving a tasty piece where it had dug its
fang even before it had even started gnawing, to rush towards the new one. But
once I had started speaking the simplest English I knew, the one commonly used
by everyone but probably native English speakers themselves, I felt it becoming
agitated, wanting to go back; here and then, I threw a bone, an oddity, a
neologism, a fashionable expression that had just appeared; and it couldn’t
help but run towards it.

And after a few hours, I had it and it was trapped. It could not feed. I felt
it knocking on the bars of the cage I had put it in. And I then addressed every
object in the house in this simple form. They answered in their own English -
that I refuse to call broken, it was only on a diet; not using the Universal
Language, but in this pleasant, if short, English method. I suspect they had
felt like me this dangerous intruder eating what little they had to offer it.
It jumped and raged and raged, but with no result. I started telling out loud
the events of the day before in an even poorer manner that what I wrote here,
erasing with it any specific linguistic association in my memory. And when I
was done, I felt something like a little lump on the side of my forehead. I
took a knife and cut it out. There was nothing to be seen - but flesh and
something that could have been a tiny part of my brain. You could only feel a
faint and strange presence, terrified and starved - but all of this I burned in
the fireplace. For added safety, I got rid of the ashes in many ways.

I was free, though dizzy with this venture in self-surgery. I tried to have a
talk with the mirror. This time it didn’t answer. I felt at ease. The warning
of the Language itself, speaking through the eagle-owl, came back to me though
how memory was enough for the Universal Language to reform - and sometimes,
these words come back to me, as they did the other day when I decided to write
down a more thorough account of what had happened to me. And this fills me with
dread, to the point where I come back to whatever language is the safest - but
for now, nothing is safer than the good old universal English, the very one
that is blamed by for so many evils, but that for me has proven to be the most
reliable tool of salvation.

There are no foreign languages to my mind; how could there be ? I have
forgotten, really, what language I was first taught, the same way I don’t
remember much before the days of Hyperborea. Surely, I’m more at ease with some
I’ve been practicing for a very long time, surely. But I have lost my real
native tongue - the first one. I don’t really care anymore about it, for things
in their primordial state are not of interest once you’ve lived a few millenia.
Only the so-called Universal Language, that doesn’t deserve the name it gave to
itself, was foreign - or, as I fear I did not really get rid of it, is. But any
song, any sound, anything that my tongue can pronounce or even mangle, is just
something that will probably be familiar one day or the other. In all
likelihood, I will end up speaking a variety of my own; and this would bring to
life my second biggest fear, that I alone would catch it.
